We're entering the first of four
factories.
>> This is one of the cleanest factories in
the world.
>> How clean is clean?
>> Even a single skin cell can actually
kill one of our chips that we make here.
>> Chips like these. The smallest
components on today's chips are smaller
than the size of a virus.
Approximately 50,000 times smaller than
the width of a human hair. And fragile
as they may be, today's most expensive
chips sell for upwards of $30,000 each
and are reportedly transported in
armored vehicles.
We're talking about the massive, highly
lucrative heartbeat powering the global
economy.
>> A trillion semiconductor devices are
shipped every year. That's 100 devices
for every person on Earth.
>> They are the foundation of economic
growth around the world and it brings
together the best scientific minds to
push progress forward.
>> The chip industry is projected to hit $1
trillion in revenue in 2026. And thanks
to AI,
everyone is talking about it.
>> My beat went from obscure backwater that
people had sort of heard of to being the
center of technology.
>> What is widely considered to be the most
complex manufacturing process on Earth
is facing the limitations of our
physical world.
>> We're pushing the envelope of technology
in multiple directions, software,
hardware, chemistry, physics, and all
dimensions.
>> Unprecedented market conditions.
>> Demand for AI infrastructure is
absolutely massive. It appears to be
insatiable right now.
>> Vulnerable choke points.
>> economy is likely to collapse if
something happens to Taiwanese chip
ecosystem.
>> So just how resilient is the industry
that requires this many layers of
clothing to function?
>> See you.
>> Right this way.
>> Nestled among windmills and canals,
surrounded by charming cottages and
cyclists, you will find Europe's most
valuable tech firm. Well known for
>> Lithography. Lithography.
>> The lithography tools that they create
are some of the most fabulously complex
and difficult to perfect machines in the
world.
>> ASML doesn't make chips. It makes
machines that make chips and offers tech
that no other company has been able to
recreate.
Lithography is a process that directs
light through a series of mirrors,
lenses, and a special blueprint to
transfer patterns onto silicon wafers,
essentially shrinking chip designs down
to sizes invisible to the human eye and
creating the electrical pathways that
give a chip its function.
>> All of the manufacturers of the most
advanced chips in the world, whether
they say it publicly or not, use ASML's
machines or are about to use ASML's
machines.
>> The nano patterning machine is one of
the most critical steps in the
semiconductor making. People buy new
phones because they got more
capabilities for the same money. So, you
must find a way to print much smaller
features,
but at much higher productivity.
>> In order to make the next generation of
chips even more intricate, ASML
literally had to develop a way to
generate a type of light that does not
naturally occur on Earth's surface,
called EUV, extreme ultraviolet. The
system is as big as a double-decker bus,
weighs as much as a blue whale, and will
run customers $400 million per machine.
>> Why do your machines have to be so big?
>> That's a That's a good question.
First of all, as you want to print
smaller resolution, you you make the
opening angle of the lens bigger.
>> Bigger lenses can collect more
information to
onto the surface of the chips.
>> The second reason is in order to have
the speed, you need very fast moving
stages.
>> Litho machines can repeatedly copy a
pattern onto a wafer hundreds of
thousands of times within about 12
seconds.
>> The reticle stage can move about 20 G,
four times more acceleration than the
most advanced fighter jets in the world.
In order to have that power to
accelerate that fast, you need big
motors.
>> The smaller or more complex the chip,
the bigger the machine needs to be.
There's no avoiding it.
All of the world's most advanced litho
machines come from ASML.
It is one hyper specialized link in this
highly concentrated supply chain that is
under more pressure than ever before.
All eyes are on the companies at the top
and whether they're up for the
challenge.
>> They design the semiconductor products
that really drive the leading edge of
compute.
>> This is AMD, Advanced Micro Devices.
Worth more than $300 billion,
it's a place where engineers fill their
thermoses with liquid nitrogen, where
stock prices have been known to triple.
AI is hot.
>> You hear it sizzle all of a sudden?
>> And occasionally, employees appear out
of thin air.
>> All right, you guys are getting
first-hand view of how this works.
We're delivering server chips that go
into supercomputers, networking chips
that connect the world together, on down
to the consoles that you use to play
your latest games. But the common theme
in all of them is they require certain
compute capabilities and energy
efficiency.
>> The switches in chips are called
transistors. They're sort of like
nanoscopic light switches that control
the flow of electricity and generate the
classic ones and zeros that ultimately
make up every piece of digital
information in our modern devices. Chips
are everywhere. It's how your phone
unlocks, your robot vacuum navigates,
and how your coffee maker somehow
connects to Wi-Fi.
Sometimes.
>> When you think about the modern economy,
right? And you think about how goods are
produced today, what you recognize is
that chips have become ubiquitous. It's
very difficult to find anything that you
can plug in or that runs on a battery
that doesn't have a semiconductor of
some form in it.
>> The stock market loves chips. Sorry, I
may be underselling this a bit. The
stock market is going absolutely
bonkers.
>> The latest blockbuster AI chips deal
with AMD
>> And I mean, holy, moly, Batman, the AI
rally and the chip grab, it is on in a
big way.
>> And AMD has turned the demand for AI
chips into a new multi-billion dollar
part of its business.
>> All right, so
this is a wafer. This is how we build
our products. You can see where all of
the various individual chips are
printed. So, this wafer probably has
around three or 400 chips printed, and
after you singulate them
>> A fancy way of saying wafers are chipped
into individual chips, which is actually
the origin of the term chip.
>> You have products such as this. This is
a chip that would run your PC.
>> Basic chips are called analog or
essential, and they quite simply have
more basic functions as sensors or power
switches. More advanced chips are
referred to as, well, advanced. This
could be your run-of-the-mill CPU or
GPU, the brains of the computer that are
computing and performing more elaborate
tasks.
The most specialized AI chips are
designed to not only run, but create
software to process droves of data in a
matter of milliseconds.
>> Just to see a contrast,
you know, this is a PC,
this is a server, this is AI. And the
amount of silicon is immensely higher.
This central region here is actually
many chips with some stacked on top of
the other. And then the eight individual
chiplets on the outside are our memory
stacked 12 layers high. And so we're
able to get more energy efficient AI
compute.
>> Of course, AI is booming.
AI chips accounted for more than 1/4 of
all chips sold in 2025. That figure is
expected to reach more than half by
2029.
Chip demand is no longer dictated by
which new iPhone or PC will have
customers lining up.
>> What has changed over the years in the
semiconductor industry is since we're
seeing such a surge in the need to build
data centers for AI deployment and
applications, we're seeing a more
sustained growth period in
semiconductors as opposed to the
old-fashioned cyclical when we used to
have Intel come out with chips that
everybody had to upgrade their computer
for.
>> Spending on AI infrastructure like data
centers is projected to soon cross the
$1 trillion mark. So the demand for
these chips is there.
There's just one maybe not so nanoscopic
problem.
How concentrated is too concentrated for
this supply chain?
Behind those pom-poms and smoke machines
are employees for the chip giant TSMC,
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Company. As fun as the annual company
sports day looks, TSMC's role in the
industry is serious business.
>> Creating semiconductors
is the most complicated manufacturing
process in the world.
>> To be fair, it does require a bit of
choreography.
Making a chip is like building a house
of cards with thousands of people
located on multiple continents.
Everyone must place their card exactly
right, delicately balanced at the
perfect time or
well, you know what happens. The
majority of chip design happens in the
US.
Raw silicon wafers are primarily made in
Japan and Taiwan, but a few other places
as well.
A lot of chip-making machinery comes
from the Netherlands, of course, the US,
and South Korea. Components within those
machines are sourced from places like
Germany, Japan, and the US. Then, all of
those things join forces for
manufacturing magic within fabrication
facilities, fabs short, heavily
concentrated in Taiwan.
TSMC manufactures over 90% of the
world's most advanced chips, almost
entirely out of its Taiwan-based
gigafabs.
>> A gigafab is a massive chip-making site.
It maximizes its output and optimizes
its cost.
>> It created this idea of we can outsource
manufacturing, give us your designs and
we'll make the best chips. Doesn't
matter who's designing them, you're
going to TSMC and you're saying, "Please
make this for me."
>> It's basically the bottleneck of all
bottlenecks. Smack-dab in the middle of
a very complex supply chain with no
simple alternative.
>> What's called bringing up a fab, which
is basically making a new factory or a
new production line operational,
requires a lot of experience. And so,
guess what? If you've got one next door
that's already working, why not copy
that? The logistics are very much favor
building these things in what are called
clusters in close proximity to each
other.
>> These clever clusters are
let's say, precarious.
>> There are a lot of ways that the supply
chain for semiconductors and its broader
ecosystem can be destabilized.
>> Taiwan's strongest earthquake in 25
years.
>> Disruptive side effects of the COVID
pandemic. There is now a global shortage
of computer chips.
>> A supply chain disruption in one place
can cause repercussions in the industry
far down the line.
>> To top it off, TSMC is located at the
center of a decades-long geopolitical
standoff.
>> Beijing has been ratcheting up pressure,
staging its most expansive military
drills in decades.
>> China claims Taiwan is a Chinese
territory, while Taiwan maintains its
independence. And that doesn't make
things feel particularly stable.
>> There are some concerns about China's
plans for the future of Taiwan and
whether that could constrain the ability
of United States companies to get those
chips.
>> A February 2026 Bloomberg Economics
report estimates that the world economy
could lose $10 trillion if a conflict
were to erupt.
With Taiwan hanging in the balance,
global superpowers are making moves.
>> The government of the United States has
said, "Hey, guess what? This is
strategically important to us. It has
massive security implications."
>> The defense industry needs very highly
advanced chips that are impervious, for
example, to space radiation to power
satellites and planes and things like
this. So, there's a defense industry
motivation for governments to make sure
that there are the right kind of
semiconductors produced within their
country's borders.
>> China doesn't feel that it can depend on
the US. It believes in self-reliance and
technological supremacy as well. But
basically, it doesn't want to be left
out. So, it wants to develop its own
homegrown chip industry.
>> And where does Huawei come in?
>> Well, Huawei is China's national tech
champion. It's a company that's known
for its uh hardware prowess. Back in
2019, the US had imposed sanctions on
Huawei, basically cutting off its
ability to get the components it needs
to make its products. And there was a
feeling that Huawei was in a lot of
trouble.
>> At the time, China was a late start into
chip manufacturing. Less than 10% of the
country's chips were being supplied by
Chinese companies with less advanced
tech than foreign firms. Which is at
odds with the fact that China is also
the world's largest market for chips.
>> China has a massive middle-class
consumer base that it can sell
electronics to. So, if it could make and
develop these capabilities in the chip
industry, then
it's almost supportable on a domestic
basis.
>> But China has been notoriously secretive
about its chip industry.
>> No one really knew where China stood. We
had heard that Huawei was building some
chip factories in secret. We identified
three factories deep in the bowels of
Guangdong, and I got the location. And
when I got there, I was surprised.
>> The site was evidence of China's major
domestic manufacturing efforts underway
to skirt US sanctions.
>> We all thought that this wasn't possible
because you need so much money in order
to build these uh chip plants.
>> Estimates suggest building a
leading-edge chip plant requires at
least $30 billion in capital.
Nonetheless, in 2023, Huawei shocked the
industry with the debut of a China-made
advanced chip that proved an
unexpectedly rapid development in
capability. China has also become the
world's biggest producer of analog
chips. But Chinese progress in advanced
chip making has been stalled by
fluctuating US regulation around access
to state-of-the-art Western chips and
chip technology. ASML's highly coveted
advanced lithography machines are among
the technologies blocked from being sold
to Chinese companies.
>> China's advantages, they're spending and
investing a lot of money in creating
their own chips. The Chinese government
launched a $50
chip fund allowing a lot of these local
chip makers to tap into in order to
develop their chip making capabilities.
You also have all these big private tech
companies, Alibaba, Tencent, also
providing money and support backing a
lot of these startups.
>> Money is the name of the game. The
Chinese government is considering
incentives valuing up to an additional
$70 billion
to support domestic chip making.
Meanwhile, the US is still doling out
money from the Biden administration's
$52 billion 2022 CHIPS Act in a major
reshoring effort of its own.
>> Reshoring means bringing factories back
to a certain country so that the
physical ability to manufacture
semiconductors resides in that country.
>> In 1990, nearly 40% of the world's chips
were manufactured in the US. In 2024, it
was only about 10% so the US has
ambitions to send that percentage
climbing again.
>> The United States has never been the
cheapest place to produce semiconductor
components. Our labor costs are high,
our regulatory burden is high, but there
is an incentive now under the current
administration and other prior one which
involves subsidizing the creation of
more manufacturing here in the United
States.
>> About 7,000 miles from the TSMC Gigafabs
in Taiwan, there is a site or collection
of sites that have earned a name
inspired by none other than the
birthplace of chip innovation.
Welcome to the Silicon Desert.
>> This place a few years ago it used to be
desert and in a few years we will have a
little city here of fabs. Everything
will start being like a science fiction,
highly automated producing thousands of
wafers uh very soon.
>> On the one hand, the desert is good for
chip fabs. Low humidity, decreased risk
of earthquakes and floods, cheap land,
and of course some tax incentives.
On the other, the chip infrastructure
has to be built up from scratch. To
date, TSMC is committed to investing
$165 billion in the Arizona fabs and is
scheduled to receive $6.6 billion in
direct funding from the CHIPS Act. As
TSMC makes a splash with its first
operations on US soil, major expansion
efforts are also underway by the OG
American chip company. Do you know the
one?
Think back to your high school backpack.
>> There's a better way for everyone. From
the company that invented the integrated
circuit, Texas Instruments. The better
way keeps getting better.
>> Everybody says, "Oh, the calculator
company, right?" And the reality is we
do so much more than that. Our
foundational chips are the backbone of
essentially all modern technology as we
know it.
>> Okay, so the calculators are cool, but
this Texas Instruments story is about a
different equation.
>> If it plugs into the wall or has a
battery, it very likely has one TI chip
in it. We have 15 manufacturing sites
globally and these manufacturing sites
work together to provide tens of
billions of chips every year globally to
our customers. And for perspective,
that's tens of thousands of chips coming
out of TI globally every single minute.
>> That is a whopping 100,000 customers and
80,000 products.
TI makes the kind of chips that perform
more simple tasks like sensing
temperature to prevent overheating or
managing power as it moves through a
device. The chips that keep our
technology safe and running smoothly.
>> One of the most important things about
the industry that you have to understand
is its volume economics. Making a lot of
chips
as cheap as you can and selling them for
as much as you can is the way towards
victory.
>> Some of TI's chips sell for just a few
cents each. They're cheaper and easier
to make than today's leading advanced
and AI chips, meaning it's
cost-effective to utilize lower tier or
even hand-me-down production equipment.
But the company has made the
countercurrent decision to invest $60
billion in advanced chip manufacturing
tech.
>> We're actually in the sub fab. The clean
room will be just above us.
>> The details all come back to those shiny
wafers.
>> Maybe you can come here and help me hold
this, please.
>> This is a 200 mm wafer, the size used by
most analog chip companies. This is a
300 mm wafer, primarily used for more
advanced chip manufacturing. These are
TI's big bet.
>> So, going from 200 to 300 mm increases
the surface area on the wafer by 2.3
times.
>> Meaning 2.3 times the number of chips.
>> So, when you look here, there's kind of
a collection of different chips, and you
can see everything from, you know,
really big products here all the way to
the very small tiny ones.
>> Pause. Let that sink in.
Those are chips.
>> Yeah, it's quite amazing, isn't it? I
think if I picked it up, you wouldn't be
able to see it. I think it's about the
size of a pepper flake, and uh yeah, in
fact, very glittery.
>> At that scale, 2.3 times the number of
chips could mean a competitive advantage
of hundreds of thousands more chips per
wafer.
>> So, from this vantage point, you can get
a sense of scale of this site. This will
be TI's largest mega site, over 5 and
1/2 million square feet, the same square
footage as two Empire State Buildings.
>> Wow.
>> It's a huge site, mega site.
>> While TI doesn't make AI chips, it's
hoping the current landscape propels
demand for its essential chip business.
>> I think what we're seeing in terms of
the growth and expansion of the whole
industry is a mixture. We always have
the nuts and bolts chips, but we also
have AI pulling along those nuts and
bolts chips, too, because you can't
build a server for a data center without
some lower-end cheaper chips that do
some of the grunt work, if you like.
>> I'm bloody freezing.
>> All right, get into those warm bunny
suits.
>> So, we're going into the first part of
the clean room that hasn't had equipment
installed yet. Is that correct?
>> Yeah, we're entering into the north side
of the first of four factories here in
Sherman, Texas. This factory is 100%
automated. On the ceiling, we will have
over 15 miles of automated track. Each
one of those cars carries material
around the factory.
Bringing up a 300-mm
factory has the most advanced
manufacturing equipment in the world.
>> Texas Instruments projects this site
will soon produce hundreds of millions
of chips every single day.
If all of this investment pays off in
the margins, TI will increase its lead
as the number one global supplier of
analog chips and prove advanced
manufacturing's value for even the
tiniest ones.
>> Couple of decades ago, chips in general
were servicing behind the scenes. Today,
I would say chips actually define
infrastructure. They define
communications or people mobility or
defense or AI.
>> From the chips powering our devices to
the fabs where they're made,
the industry is experiencing pervasive
change. The demand from AI and our ever
more technologically dependent world is
forcing a global rethink of the
fundamental building blocks.
But one thing is for certain, innovation
is underway.
>> We might be looking at the news and
seeing politics take center stage or
other disruptions. Be aware that
companies are going to be focused on
investing in the new product, in the new
design, and how to save on costs.
They're going to be focused on
innovation if they're doing things
correctly.
>> For years this industry was mired in
this win or loss brutal economics trudge
towards the future and now we're seeing
all kinds of excitement of people
talking about chips in a new way.
>> Plain and simple, the chip industry is
evolving to meet the moment and it's
>> Am I allowed to say the word sexy?
>> Why yes, you absolutely are.